---
layout: single
title: "How Twitter users reacted to Brexit"
description: "My attempt to use the TwitteR and qdap packages in tweet analysis"
category: R
tags: [r, brexit, twitter, data analysis, politics, TwitteR, qdap]
comments: true
---

"What do you think about Brexit?" asked the interviewer, in my very first job interview in Vietnam, on June 24, 2016. Being unplugged from the Internet for 18 hours on the airplane from US to Vietnam, and another 12 hours of sleep due to jetlag, I was stunned. Being so unexpected as it was, Brexit cost me a job offer. However, also being hugely popular and polarized, it gives me a great opportunity to practice text mining and sentimental analysis. In this very first post, I would demonstrate the process of using the `TwitteR` and `tm` packages to mine and analyze Twitter users' reactions to Brexit on the day June 24, 2016, the very day Brexit happened.

## Getting the data

The process of mining tweets is indeed straightforward, thanks to the awesome `TwitteR` package. However, the prepration is somewhat cumbersome, which I would demonstrate in another post. The goal is get **Consumer Key**, **Consumer Secret**, **Access Token** and **Access Token Secret**, in order for the `setup_twitter_oauth` function to work. 

After setting up authentication, the real process of mining tweets would be fairly easy with only function `searchTwitter` needed, and `twListToDF` in case you want to convert the results to a data frame. 

Let's assume **Consumer Key**, **Consumer Secret**, **Access Token** and **Access Token Secret** be **A**, **B**, **C** and **D** respectively (the real keys and secrets would be series of multiple characters and numbers), the process of getting 10,000 tweets with hashtag **#Brexit** on June 24, 2016 would be:

```r
library(twitteR)

consumer_key = 'A'
consumer_secret = 'B'
access_token = 'C'
access_secret = 'D'

setup_twitter_oauth(consumer_key, consumer_secret, access_token, access_secret)

# Scrape the data, 10000 tweets, language = English
brexit = searchTwitter("#Brexit", n = 50000, since = "2016-06-23", until = "2016-06-24", lang = "en")
brexit = twListToDF(brexit)
```

## Cleaning the data

One important character of tweets is that they contain a lot of emojis, in the form of `latin1` characters, which would be incompatible with the `qdap` package. To eliminate that problem, I convert all characters in the form of `latin1` to `ASCII`.

```r
brexit$text = iconv(brexit$text, "latin1", "ASCII", sub="")
```

URLs are not needed in my analysis, so I also strip all URLs from the text:

```r
brexit$text = gsub(' http[^[:blank:]]+', '', brexit$text)
```

Finally, since I only want to do analysis with original tweets, I make a subset for original tweets:

```r
orig = subset(brexit, !isRetweet)
```

## Calculating the emotional polarity

In order to sentimenal analysis, I use the function `polarity` in the `qdap` package. Note that `qdap` needs `rJava` to run, and in order to install `rJava`, your **Java** and **RStudio** need to be uniform (in either the 32-bit or 64-bit versions). 

The function `polarity` gives use a pretty comprehensive analysis in the polarity of the text (read more about the function [here](http://finzi.psych.upenn.edu/library/qdap/html/polarity.html)). However, in this case, I only need to use the polarity score of each tweet. 

```r
orig$pol = polarity(orig$text)$all$polarity #extracting the score
```
